OK so we have one more property to take a look at before we go ahead and build our first little mini
project and that property is called justify content justify content.
You may be familiar with if you've used it before but in this context it's very very useful.
It allows us to specify how the space inside of a flex container should be distributed between the different
items and the key point is along the main axis.
So back to this diagram here we have three items.
There's space over here.
So this would be one way of distributing the space but we could put it on the left side as well.
Or what if we put some space here some here some here and some here or center everything in the middle.
There's a bunch of different options.
So the key idea is how do we space things out using the available space across the main access.
So it's not referring to this space the top and bottom.
In this example just across the main axis or if we had a column layout like this.
This is the main axis.
There isn't any available space in this diagram.
But in some of the things that we've come up with there would be space.
So how would we assign that space going up and down not left to right like we had in this example here.
So if we set justify content on the container to be flex and notice that all of our content moves to
the right side because our main axis starts here and it ends here it goes to the flex and it doesn't
change the order so it's not the same as flex direction.
It still goes one two three four.
It's just that the white space is on the left.
If we change the value to the center it now centers all of the content.
So it doesn't put space between them lumps that together and put space on either side to center it.
The next value is called space between and I'll show all of these in practice but I want to just go
through these as a quick reference space between well take the space and divide it between the elements
so it doesn't put it on the edges just in between the different elements.
However many there are five ten twenty two however many along with space between there's also space
around.
And what this will do is take the space and evenly divided around all the items.
And you might be wondering and this diagram it looks like it did a bad job of making it even.
But actually what it does is it takes the space on the left and add to the right and then it does the
same thing to the left of this one in the right.
And so we get double space or we have two items meeting versus single space which there are ways of
remedying that but by default this is what it does.
OK.
So that's enough slides.
Let's go to the code.
If you feel like that's enough of an explanation for you then go ahead skip this but I'm going to demonstrate
some of it.
The first thing I'll do is I'll turn off flex wrap and I'm also going to change this back to flex direction.
Row and I'll get rid of that height OK.
And the other thing I'll do is make these a lot smaller.
Let's go with 100 pixels.
Perfect.
So they don't take up the entire container so we can set justify content let's do flex and can see everything
moves to the right.
Very easy simple way to do that without actually changing the order of anything.
And this is a good point to mention.
The default is flex start if you come at that hour.
It makes no difference.
OK.
So that's flex start flex and a very useful one center wheel center all those items automatically.
You don't have to do anything else.
We also have as we mentioned space between which you look at that very useful as well.
If you're trying to do any sort of grid system or you want to have content evenly spaced.
There you go.
Same thing you know if we delete a bunch of these gcc to show you the magic effects box they're still
evenly spaced and we can make them larger say 200 pixels.
We're not having to update margin or border or anything.
We could dynamically change the size and that spacing will change as well.
Let's go back to having all these here.
Let's go back to 100 pixels so that space between.
There's also space around.
And yes it's uneven looking.
But if you account for supporting this in half the left half belonging to one the right half one to
two it is actually applying the exact same space around them.
OK so let's go back to center
and now let's change this to be road reverse flex direction.
So it still works.
Just going to show you a couple of combinations.
Let's go back and change this to column now.
And you're not going to see much again because we don't have a height that we've applied to our container.
Let's apply a height to our container and let's also allow them to wrap.
OK so we have all these little items in here that are centered and wrapping.
Now it's kind of a weird way out.
I'll give you that resume out so we can see exactly what's happening.
Here's our whole container.
So we set first flex wrap to wrap flex direction to be calm.
So our main axis goes from top to bottom and our cross axis goes from left to right.
So it goes one two three four five and then over to the right and wraps six seven eight nine and remember
justified content is along the main axis.
So that's this way.
So we're not talking about any of this whitespace in here or in here it's just this space this space
this one and this space.
So by setting it to center it's distributing them in the middle vertically so let's do instead of center
let's do space between now we have vertically evenly spaced at least in a given row vertically evenly
spaced items.
And if we did flex and what do you think will happen.
What's your guess.
Save we have that white space up top now and our content is pushed to the end of the main axis.
So hopefully this is starting to make sense of the whole main axis cross axis.
Why it's important that you understand that because if you don't have a good understanding of those
two directions those two axes then it can be very difficult to understand what's happening.
Like I said ignore this.
This horizontal space for now we're solely focusing on the main axis and its direction.
So if you want to stick around also show you know if we change this to be instead of column we could
do column reverse and we can change justify content to be Center.
Just to show you possible combinations and instead of rap.
Rap reverse getting crazy here.
So what we're doing now our main axis starts here and it ends up here so top or bottom to top but our
cross axis because we did wrap reverse goes from right to left and on top of that we're setting justify
content to be center so vertically.
These things are centered along the main axis from bottom to top.
So yes you could play around with that and change that to space between and now same thing except that
space is evenly split up.
OK.
You're probably bored of this by now.
If you're still there we're going to move on to actually building something using these properties together
in the next video.
See you then.